[Automatically transcribed. Not edited yet. Contains many errors.]
>> Hello
>> and welcome to the Haskell weekly podcast. This is a show about
Haskell, a purely functional programming language.
I'm your host, Cameron Gara, an engineer here at
I.T.. Pro T.V. with me today is Taylor
Fausak, one of the engineers on my team. Thanks for joining
me today, Taylor.
>> Yeah. I'm happy to be here, Cam. Also excited
because we have not one but two special guests
with us today. We've got Michael
Bouchard and Brian Hurt both from
chat wisely. Thanks for joining us today. Michael and
Brian. Good things here. Yeah,
>> thanks for having us.
>> So, Michael, you are the CEO
of chat wisely. Could you get us acquainted?
What is chat wisely. And I guess. First, who are you?
Tell us about yourself.
>> Oh, sure. Um uh, I
am a software engineer.
Uh, that, uh, met Brian when we're
working, uh, at a different company. That
was also using
Haskell. And that's where we got the
idea for chat wisely.
That's where I was enamored with
Brian's idea. Um
uh, for chat wisely, uh, which
is a member supported mini blog.
Um uh, social network.
That's currently an open beta.
>> Okay. And many blogs, social network.
Is that something like Twitter? Mastodon, That type of
thing.
>> Oh, yeah, Well, it's, uh,
uh, something like Twitter. Except, uh, one
of the main differences is how we handle, uh,
the post chain, um, with
Twitter. Uh, we see
a particular problem with Twitter is is being
able to follow and manage extended
conversations. So the idea we came
up with was, uh,
to be able to
open up a larger
hosts hidden behind smaller post that looked like
twitter. Looks like those Twitter,
um, tweets,
Okay. And
>> the other big Sorry. The other big thing,
and probably even more importantly, is how
we're actually going to fund it. Um,
our plan is, rather than depending, depending upon
advertising revenue, we're just going to charge a small
amount of buck a month, basically nothing.
But that's enough that it
changes all of
the incentives that
the company has. And you tell me how you tell me
what incentives the company has. You tell me how the company makes
money. I will tell you how the company will behave,
right? And so this has been something I've
been sort of muttering in my cups about for a couple of
years. Now that you know the problem with
Facebook and Twitter and all of the
spying and the trolls and everything has
been because their business model is wrong,
fix the business model and the
behavior of the company fixes itself.
Yeah, And so I met Michael
and I was, you know, uh,
muttering in my cups one day and he was like,
Sounds like a great idea. Let's do
>> it.
And that sounds like a great idea to me as well.
Mhm. Um, so
yeah. So, Brian, could you give us just a brief
introduction to the technical side of things as well?
>> Okay, I'm Brian Hurt. I'm the cto
of chat wisely because I won the coin
flip. And so I got,
uh and
yeah, chat wisely is built
in Haskell. Uh, we're using Haskell on the back
end. Um, a lot of servants. Some Yes.
Owed some more. You know more. Yea. So we'll be coming.
Um and,
uh, postgres is the database and
G.H.C. Js and reflexes. The front end
and we are loving Haskell.
>> I should hope so.
>> Yeah. Would you guys kind of expand
upon your experience with G.H.C. gs
and kind of why he chose it.
>> So you know what? You know,
the question is always what's the right tool for the
job And the, you know,
the engineering is always about trade offs. What do you
gain? What do you lose? There is no such thing as a perfect
solution. Um, and
so if you're going
to do a more static web
website, I would I would probably recommend
a soda as the website generator Really like it
for, you know, static server side rendering.
But, you know, if you need the
dynamism of the the front
end, you know, complex,
dynamic changing of
web app. Um, then
G.H.C. Js and, um, reflex are
good solutions, all right?
>> And I mean, there are solid business reasons to choose
J. C. J s and reflex, as opposed to say no
Js when you're two guys and your
labor, your labor budget is zero.
Uh, and you need to
iterate quickly, and you're building something that you
don't know how to. I mean, this is we started
not knowing how to build a social network. Um
uh, and, um, it was,
uh, the type system of Haskell.
Um, that allowed us
to get stuff out
quickly. Figure out
where the happy Path was.
Um, cheaply. Um, and we don't spend a
lot of time on unit
tests, um, but rather
getting getting the product out. Um,
and this is where Haskell really shines from a
business perspective.
>> Yeah, I I would go. You
are. If you're not using Haskell on the back
end, at least you are almost certainly
messing up. Um,
it is Haskell on the back end to such a
strong proposition. Um,
the advantage of doing Haskell on the front end
and doing G.H.C. Js The biggest advantage
is you can share code between the front end
and the back end. And
so what happens? And I've seen this at other you know,
at other places I've worked
is you know, you You you
get a If you're using Haskell on both
front and back end, you drive. You take a
feature and you drive it home. Soup to nuts, right? You do the
back end, you do the front end, you do the database. You
do, you know, um, you do
everything and then you go here. It's done
in other environments that I've worked in.
You know, when you have different languages. It,
you know, in the front end versus the back end.
It sorts out that there will be front end people, and there will
be back into people. And what will happen is
the back end. People will enter. You will will
implement, you know, stuff for this feature
and the front end people will go. Well, we're not. You know, the back
end isn't here yet. We can't start developing until the front,
the back end, is there and then they'll forget about it.
And then I'm not kidding. I actually have
experiences of five years later. Management's going.
Whatever happened to this feature that, like we
did work on, like, five years ago? What
back in people are like, it's there. It works in the front end of people are
going What feature or right? First
I've seen it go the other way. This is not, you know, this is
you know, this is just how humans work. Once you
start segregating into two groups,
it becomes the sharks and the jets, whether you wanted
to be or not, right and so just
just being able to go. Okay? You are in
charge of this feature soup to not to
do it means it gets done. And you
don't have all of this stuff hanging fire and handoff
issues and so on. Um,
and there's a huge advantage to, I mean,
one of the biggest pieces of code that gets shared between the front
and the back end. Our is the
types of the data you're sending back
and forth. So it's very nice
to just go. You know, we have a common
schema directory that has all of
the common directories. Everything that's shared
between the front and the back end and the
schema is just all of those data types that are
boasts the front end and the back end. Have and
you go. Okay, here's the two. You know, this is the type. Here's the
two. Jason, here's the from Jason. Do
the obvious quick check test to
go. If we encode it to Jason and decode it, we should
get the same thing back out again. Right?
And now you don't have a
communications problem of,
you know of of the back end, sending one saying in
the front end, expecting something else
>> exactly right. So we we are
currently in that situation you were describing Where
Cam and I both primarily work on the back end
and we are using high school. So we're doing something right
there, and our API is in servant. So we have,
you know, a well type description of it. And on the front
end, we're using l'm rather than G.H.C. Js. But the
principle is the same. You know, we're using a strongly typed language, so we have to
decode it. And yeah, we have walked into that situation a
couple of times where the back end team has developed something, and
then the front and team doesn't know that it's finished. They think they're still waiting on
it or vice versa. And, uh, it would be nice
to be able to go into end with one language.
Um, but I am curious. Uh, is there a
particular reason you all chose G.H.C. Js
versus, uh, you know, there are many languages in here,
like, uh, Elmore peer script or
paste or fate or whatever.
>> Uh, a
>> lot of it was a lot of it was
just straight up familiarity. Both of us had worked with
G.H.C. Js and reflex before,
and so, um
I will admit to a little bit of pure script
envy. Um, there are, But
there are tradeoffs here, right? It's always, you
know, what do you gain? What do you lose? Um,
I had
>> some experience with pure script and my only problem with your
script Besides, the fact that you cannot share,
uh, data types is that it's just like
Haskell until it isn't,
um, and
getting getting tripped up over that
just just there's too much friction. Um,
and and what you get in exchange, this didn't seem
worth it. And not knowing
how to build what we were going to build,
um, I found that reflex
would give us the flexibility to change
course if we needed to. And we have needed to on
a number of occasions
>> or the re flexibility, you might say,
>> Yeah. I mean, for for me, it's
the idea of the shared data types between the front and the
back, and it's just awesome because
we've had kind of that issue where, you know, for generically
deriving something, we changed the name of a record access er
and oh, the front is broken or a
mobile app was broken for two months.
We had no idea, You know, like those kind of
things. You know, obviously
there's test cases for that kind of stuff, and we're
have learned from our mistakes. But, you know, it's kind of that
thing where if we could just have the same data
types front and back end, it's not, You know,
we don't have to worry about decoding and encoding
changes. It would break production running
sites.
>> Yeah, and I'm curious for y'all. Maybe chat
wisely hasn't been around long enough to have run into this
problem. But maybe you all are familiar with it. So even
with code sharing, do you still worry
about Is there like an older version of the client
out there that expects the old schema and we updated it?
And it's new on the back end and new on the front end. But they haven't
refreshed the page yet.
>> Brian
>> came up with a great idea very early on to deal with
this.
>> Let's hear it.
>> Okay, so the basic idea is you need to have
version schemas. Um,
the nice thing. One of the nice things about
servant, one of the many, many nice things about servant
is you know, you sit there and you go. This endpoint has
the function here is to function so you can
have multiple different You can have,
you know, V one schema and V two schema
and you know V three schema. And if the function if
that endpoint hasn't changed, you just use the same function
in all three places. And so our
plan for doing that is you
just support multiple versions of the schema,
Um, you know, at the same
time. And it's okay, these in points are
different. And here is the old in point that
supports the old schema. And here's the new endpoint that
supports the new schema. And then you can
still have old clients using the
old the old
API, and you can, but you can still move
forward.
>> Yeah, that's very slim.
>> Um, and we're doing something similar to that on on
the database. Where if you have this, you have sort of the same problem on the
database side of things right where
you want to be, changing the database schema.
Um, and don't get me started on
schema list. We only have an hour here. Just, um
just walk, walk quietly passed
and let's move on. Um, you want to change
the database schema, but you've got some servers that are
using the old schema and some servers that are using the new
schema. And so the solution
is, um you you
you basically code it so that we're using liquid
base and there's a specific table that liquid
base updates to to
go. These are the constraints. These are
the the schema changes that are in in
place and you can write your code
so that you know the nice thing about Post
Grad the schema changes are our
atomic are are transactional. So
your eyes are on the old scheme or you're on the new scheme and you don't have to
worry about what if I'm halfway in between, you can just
go. Has this change been applied yet? And
you can write What you do is you write your server
Stage one, you write your server to go. It supports mostly
old scheme and the new schema. And it just
goes, you know, when it hits the database, it goes,
you know, starts a transaction. It goes Okay. Which schema do I
have? Do the right thing mhm.
Then once, then you do a blue green
deployment to update everything. So
now everything supports opposed the old scheme and the new schema.
You do the database transaction to
implement the new schema.
Once that commits, every all all of the you know,
all of the, um, all of the web servers
switch over to using the new schema.
And then when? When it's convenient,
you delete the support, the old schema
code allowing you to simplify your code, and then the
next time you do a blue green deployment, you don't have to do it
immediately. But as you know, as you bring up new servers
anyways, you bring them up with I just only support
the new schema.
>> I love it. Seamless.
>> Yep. And so this allows you to be updating the,
um, you know, updating the database even
while you're alive and serving traffic.
>> Mhm. I'm curious. Uh, it sounds like
you're doing either something very similar or the same on the
front end. Is there a cut off point for you on the front end like
we will support clients that are up to, you know, week
old or a month old or whatever
>> um, we haven't made that decision yet.
Um, there
there's a couple of different solutions to that,
um, ranging from
nice to obnoxious. Um,
yeah.
>> I've seen some single page apps where
they'll have a little pop up that says, Hey, there's been an update.
Please refresh. And I assume at a certain point they get a
little more strongly worded than
>> that. You can start doing
stunts like Okay, everybody using the
old schema now has an additional
one second delay added to all of the rest
calls. Oh, you have a program.
A performance problem. Have you tried updating?
Oh, it's all fast now. Okay, Problem
solved.
>> Yeah,
>> that's like the iPhone
world where they slow down the thing. So you
get a new phone,
>> the planned obsolescence approach to client
upgrades.
>> Yeah. Not not saying we're going to do that.
We Actually, we haven't gotten to the point where we needed to do this
stuff, but my pieces are in position, and I'm ready
to I don't know how we're going to solve that problem.
Gonna
>> put them in Checkmate,
>> huh? I like it. Um,
so, uh, G.H.C. Js
obviously works great for the web. Do you
have a story for. Have you thought about native clients?
And are you going to use Haskell there as well?
>> Okay, yes. The short answer.
Yes, we have a story. And yes, we're going to use Haskell
there, at least at the beginning. So one of the
other nice things about reflex Well,
G.H.C. Js in general is you can
flip and do compile
to native IOS and native android.
Um, using, you know, just using a built in
browser using the native mode browser
stuff.
>> Okay, so, like a web, you or what?
>> Exactly? Um,
and so you can
just take your reflex
code and compile it
to IOS native or android native and go
bang. Here. Here's your web app
that gets that gets you started.
Solution, right? That isn't a long term. You're going
to, you know, if if chat wisely takes off, we start
having you know, millions of users and money to actually
spend. Um, we will almost certainly
be, you know, you know, evolve. Um,
native true native front ends written in
swift or Scotland or what? Have you
mhm by that
time? Possibly G.H.C. right. It might be
worthwhile to just spend at the time to do the
bindings to the native, to the native calls to the
native libraries and just write the code and
G.H.C..
>> Exactly. I was going to say that with the recent changes to
the apple silicon using, um,
arm as their, uh, platform of
choice, I think G.H.C. in 9.2 is going to
have support for that. And I know it's not the exact same, but that
should perhaps ease the transition into IOS
native and maybe and native.
>> Yeah, um, but but we
can get a long ways
just going here. Is the web Nate of,
you know, the, you know, the web native
implementation. Oh, yeah. I
mean, Flack did that for years. Yeah, exactly.
>> Slack got away with that for many years, which is which is
what I needed to be assuaged. I was a little nervous about this, but
then, you know, um, we saw the slack business
case, but they did it for years. I think we'll be
fine. You
>> know, if slack can get away with it, why
not?
So yeah, So I'm curious.
Uh, G.H.C. Js Seems like it has been
going like gangbusters, and you've got plans for
future improvements. Is there anything about it that you haven't liked or
hasn't been? Great?
>> Uh, I will say there's there are
some performance problems, which is what's causing the
sort of the the the, um, the
pure script envy. A little bit there.
Um, although, you know,
from what you guys are saying, I said I would take
the fewer problems. Slower code.
I am a firm believer of I
would rather have slow but correct code
than fast, but wrong code.
Yeah, I I think it's
>> a little easier to speed things up than it is to make them more
correct, usually in painting with some broad strokes here.
But, um, And for the performance problems, are you
talking about, like, bundle size or, like, actual
runtime performance?
>> Um, bundle size of the problem?
Um, actual runtime.
So the problem as I understand it and I'm not an
expert takes us. Don't. Don't take this with so much. A grain of
salt to the £5 block of salt. Um,
is, um, the
the the you know,
the garbage collector
in in Haskell will actually force
chunks. Um, how it's been
explained to me, um so like
if you have a If you have a sunk that produces a
tuple and then another song because it just calls
first on the tuple the garbage collection will
notice that the tuple sunk has been forced. And we'll
just automatically forced the first
sunk right to just and
and that will, oftentimes free up a lot of memory.
This is a huge performance requirement
in Haskell. The the story I got
told was re compiling G.H.C. whist
trick in the garbage collector takes, like,
10 minutes or 20 minutes or whatever.
Without this trick, they let it run for 24
hours and it hadn't completed yet before they killed it. It's
that sort of performance.
>> Couple orders of magnitude.
>> Um um
and so again, large chunk of salt
here, Um, but
this means this means two things.
One thing is the the
the the the the the the
The JavaScript size is much
larger than it needs to be because you're converting to
javascript from the wrong point. You have to
be converting it to down at I think the C minus minus
level rather than at the
core level. Um, I think it would be much
smaller and actually much nicer on
on JavaScript if we could go straight from
core two to JavaScript.
Um, and
so you know now where the
other thing is that now you have to have a garbage
collector in your garbage collector language,
right? Which is just never a win. You
>> gotta run time on top of your runtime.
>> Yeah, and so mhm.
Yeah. I mean, at the moment,
it's I think it's good enough.
Um, but I actually have the dream of,
you know, one day having enough money to actually hire
people to fix this. And I actually
think the the this
is this is me dreaming the shining city
in the distance sort of dream.
I actually seek Haskell compiling
to JavaScript could be
faster than native
JavaScript. Uh,
frameworks like like, um, like,
react. And here,
here's my reasoning, and this isn't true at the
moment, you know? But what could
be, um,
So with react, how things work is whenever we when,
when any. When? The little about. Let me try this thing in
English. When any time when anything
changes you,
we draw the entire
you re render the entire the entire
page. But you re render it in virtual
dumb. Not real dumb objects, because
constructing real dumb objects is expensive.
And then you def. This
tree, the virtual dom tree
with with the dom that actually exists.
And then you do whatever changes actually
changed, right? But this means you're
doing an awful lot of work. You're generating an awful lot of
objects that you're having to do a large def
to go. Okay, this button changed
from red to green. What
happens in reflex in G.H.C.
Js is you just hit
the dumb directly. You don't recreate the dumb, you just
go. This dumb now has style. Instead of having
a style color red, it has a style color
green bang. And
this is a much faster update. You know,
you're even if you're slower. Even if your performance
on average is slower, you're doing so
much less work that
it could still be a win, right?
Yeah, I want I want to reiterate this is not
housing actually exist at the moment. So
everybody going I tested it and it
works. I'm going. Yeah. This is how
>> things could be. This is
>> how it could be. I think l'm is
perhaps proof positive that that approach can
work as far as I understand it. L'm,
um, can perform better than, say
react because it has immutable
data structures. It doesn't have laziness. However, there,
uh, html generator can
be written in a lazy way. They have a strict one, and they have a lazy
one. Um, and they also have a keyed version
which I think react as well. But yeah, it's,
um it can have that same performance guarantee where it
doesn't need to realize the entire virtual Dom in order to notice that
this one no changed. It can do much less work. And because of
that and many other reasons, I think it can be faster.
Yep. Well, that's
exciting. So I see you've taken the downside
of G.H.C. s and turned it into a potential future
upside.
>> Yeah, but again,
it's welcome to engineering. It's What do you gain? What
do you lose? There are no perfect solutions,
right? And the upsides
of Well, I also really like
the the the, um
the, uh, having a senior
moment. Reactive banana. Michael
the, uh Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> It's called reactive banana. That was my first
introduction to um uh, functional
reactive programming.
>> Functional reactive programming was the phrase I just
couldn't remember.
Yeah. First the knees go, then the memory
goes, and then I forget what goes after
that.
But, um, yeah, I really like
functional reactive programming. Just as a programming
style. Maybe it's just how my brain is
wired. But I I like just
wire everything up.
>> Yeah, And, uh, for listeners who may not be
familiar with f r. P, my understanding of it is that it
is more event driven than,
um, like, state driven. But I
haven't actually used f r p and anger. So maybe
Brian, could you explain what it means to
>> you? Okay, so
the core of f r. P is actually fairly simple.
Um, you you've got you've got
you've got 33 parts, three
major parts. You get what I think of as the
f r p. The f r p.
Pure stuff. You've got the, um
um the dom generating stuff. And then you
have the interface interfacing functions.
So at the f r. P level, you
have events. An event is something that can
be firing at any given point in time, and it can be
carrying a value when it fires. So
a classic examples are a key press, right? And
it's carrying what the event is. What key got
pressed or a mouse clicked. Right.
Um, then you have
behaviors. Um,
behaviors are things that have a value at all
points in time. At any point in time, I can return,
I can go behavior. What's your value,
like especially this event fired. When this
event fires get to get the value out of that
behavior and, you know, go do something with it,
then you have dynamics, which are the
combination of behavior. It's a
behaviour and an event that fires
whenever the behavior changes. So this
is this is sort of the the pure and, you know,
you know, behaviors you can f map behaviors, you can
filter behavior. You, uh you know, you can,
um, sorry. You can't filter behaviors. You can f
map everything. Everything is a funk door. Uh,
dynamics hormone adds, um, you can do
filters on the event. Right? So this event
fired is that when I care about No, don't
fire. You know, don't carry on firing right.
Then you have a standard
monastic based dom generation, right
where I can just you know, there's an e l function
which creates a dom element, and you can
give it This is you know, this is the tag. Here are the
attributes. And here is the the the
Menad that generates its Children. Right?
And I'm generated as some Children of some parents
function, right, so this ends up this code
ends up looking an awful lot like, if you've ever if you've
ever done, um, blaze HTML
or um um,
lucid um, it it ends up looking very
similar to that. I mean, the functions are all named
differently because, of course they are. But, um,
it's very much that pattern
and then you have the the interface
functions, right? So there's a function that can take an
element that you generated and go when,
when when the user clicks on it. Give
me an event that fires when the user clicks on this
element,
>> right, walking back into the
>> or create this element.
And here is an event or dynamic that
holds the attributes that this this
element should have. Right? And when this, when the
dynamic updates and changes, the attributes
get reset or here is, you
know, a widget Hold here is you know, I
just want to swap out which Manatt I'm sticking
in, you know, to generate the dom in this place
to replace this whole Dom sub tree with some
other dumb sub tree, you know, coming out of a
dynamic or an event. Right?
>> So, to me, this all
sounds eerily similar to the
architecture elm has tried to do. So I know that we kind of talked
about that earlier. Um, so it's relating a lot to
me as far as like, my experience with elm and like,
Yeah, so I'm like, OK, yeah, like this makes sense. And I
do enjoy that style
>> very much. L'm, I think used
to be based on f r p.
But sometime I want to say, like, l'm
0.16. They are no longer f r p based, even
though the the interface you use is very similar.
Mhm. So just historical oddity there.
>> Yeah, I think they they they may still
qualify as f r. P in my my book.
Um, I haven't actually done a lot of elm, so,
um, but if they are f r p I mean that in a good
sense, I like that.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, so, uh, switching gears just a little
bit. Uh, you all mentioned that the back end
is kind of a mix of servant,
and you sewed. Is that correct?
So, uh, do you
do any server side rendering,
like, a pre baked version of the single
page app to send out the first load? That then gets updated
later. Or how does that work?
>> Um, okay, we don't. Okay, we're
using again. I'm a great believer in
using the right tool for the job and for
stuff that doesn't have a
reflex. Um,
a reflex front
end that's needed. Um,
we are using a showed. And one of the nice things about
Haskell is Haskell works well with Haskell.
You can have, you know, you write a little bit of
Web application interface code by a little bit. I mean, like,
five lines, 10 lines of it, and you
go. Okay. The episode stuff goes here, and
the reflex stuff goes there, and everything is just happy.
And it all just works beautifully. And so you
can sit there and you can go. Okay. There are There are
some Web pages like, you know, give us your
financial information where we don't want,
You know, we want it to be a server side
rendered, you know,
>> uh, weapons a little JavaScript on there as possible.
>> A little job. Yeah. And And, you know, all of the,
you know, stuff to make sure that people aren't hijacking the
session and all of that, which Yes, So doll
has and baked in, um,
so use a sewed for what you saw is really
good at. And by the way, if
if that's pretty much your entire web page, I
do recommend the A Sewed it is a very nice
if you, you know, if you are. If you are just a
static web page generating site,
um, you know, yes, Soda is very,
very nice. I like I like its widget idea.
Um, but
for the, you know, for the reflex
pages, we haven't implemented this yet, and we
are going to in the near future, and it's, you know,
it's simply a complete deficit of
circular to it. Um, we don't have any round
to it. Um, haven't gotten any
round to it yet. Um,
the
we have, you know, um, reflex
has a, um a a
static rendering Where you basically run
the reflex code
again? This is the nice thing you can share code between front and
back end, right? So we can just suck. They
suck the page, rendering code from the client
into the server side and
go when you're hitting a
reflex page. We just pre render the
page on the server side, using
exactly the same code and spit that up.
And then and then reflex has some some magic. It
does to to instead of generating the
dom, reuse the existing dumb
>> kind of bootstrap it. Yeah. Okay, so then
this is This is possible. In theory, it's just not done
yet.
>> Um, we haven't done it yet. We haven't done it chat
wisely yet. Um, I've done it in other places. Just
round to its deficit. Um,
>> that's very exciting.
>> So hopefully that will solve several of
our bigger performance problems.
Um,
>> so we've been talking tech for a while now, but when
we kick this off, we were talking a little about, um,
you know, the users of the site and how it's funded, and I want to come
back to that. So, uh, Michael, could you,
uh, maybe talk us through a little more about
the funding like you mentioned? It's going to be,
I think right now in an open beta and you
will charge users some feed. Sounds like a dollar a
month. Um, how does this compare to
other sites with a similar model? Ones I'm familiar with are,
like, meta filter or slash dot or FARC or
something awful, I think where, um, this is just like
a minimum bar to clear in order to participate, uh, you
have to throw a dollar at us or $5 or whatever
it is. So, yeah, what do you expect? What
impact do you expect that to have on the community?
>> Well, I think the,
uh, biggest, uh,
impact is going to have is that it's our first troll
filter. We don't think most
bad actors are going to want to pay for the privilege.
Um, and, uh, the
feedback I've been getting when I talk to people, um,
and make the pitch is going to be a dollar a month. The
the, uh, reaction I get
is Well, that's nothing. Which is
what we want to communicate to you. It's nothing but in the
aggregate. To us, it's a sustainable
business.
Uh, whether you're
charging a dollar a month or
not, every social network needs to
reach, um, a point
of stability. Um uh, having a strong
enough strongly connected enough and large enough
network in order to be considered stable.
So it's in that scenario chat wisely,
having reached stability. Um,
that, uh, that dollar a
month, um, is is
very much worth it. Um,
and so yeah. So the dollar a month It's
our first, uh, not just
our first filter, um, but
also allows us to deliver,
uh, features that we've noticed.
Um, would be popular have been popular,
but they don't work in
a social
networks that rely on ads. I'll give an
example. There was a few years back in
2014 associate were called Yik
Yak. Um, Yahya
was ju located
based messaging, um,
which blew up on college campuses.
College kids love Yik yak. The
problem was, is that everyone was anonymous
and people could come and go anonymously,
which meant that turned into a
harassment machine. Um, and
they they shut down as fast as they blew
up. Um
uh, So, um, the
the the the market is there. Um
uh, just for that one aspect as
an example, Um, where we come in?
Um, uh, the reason why we
think we could make that scenario work.
Um, in a post covid world, of course.
Right. Is, uh,
having paid us, even though we provide
mechanisms to protect your privacy to the outside
world, if that's what you want to do.
Uh, so you you can go
ahead and be anonymous to the outside world, but we know who
you are. Um, and so, uh,
that is a huge disincentive. Um, to
try and use chat wisely as a harassment machine.
Um, uh, so I think that's gonna be
a huge impact. We were going to be able to
offer, um, features
that people want, um, but
cannot work, um, in,
uh, an ad based,
uh, social network.
>> Yeah, that's fascinating. The kind
of localized or, uh, I guess hyper local would be the
buzzword version of that. Um, I can see that it is an
appealing feature. And, uh, Jack, I suppose, is
proof positive of that. Um, and that would be it would be cool to
see that in a platform that isn't ad driven.
>> And can I jump in here for a minute, please?
Also, I mean, there are features
that, you know, that makes perfect sense for us.
But don't for, um, um, Facebook.
And one big one is a lot more
control. Over what? What you see,
um, and the soul,
you know, Mm.
If you wrote a client for Facebook
or for Twitter that showed all the
content but didn't show the ads, they
would have to shut you down quickly. Right.
Um, just just to keep their own
lights on right? Just to, you know, to pay their
own salaries, they would have to shut you down quickly.
We have no such problem.
Um, you know, so long as you're paying us to
buck a month, you know, we're we're good was, however
you want to access the site. All
>> right? The only clients are fine, as long as the users are
actually paying for paying you for the service. Yep.
>> And so and, you know, allow me to
to circle back on the tech side of things. This is one of the nice
things about servant is we are planning at one
point. We're not doing it currently, but at some
point we will be going. Here's a library to
access our you know, our a p i
with, you know, javascript with Ruby, with python
with java with whatever right.
And, you know, let 1000 clients, you
know, you know, Bloom,
may the best one win. Hopefully,
we're the best. One will be working hard to make sure we
try to make sure we're the best one, but it's going to be a
level playing field. We're not going to have access to
super secret. A p I is that you know you don't,
right?
>> That's something that we have been able to take advantage of here at
I.T. Pro. Like I mentioned, our back end team in front of team are separate.
Um, and we have an internal swagger. Api,
uh, we haven't yet got to the point where we
generate a client from that, but we do have the
open API swagger specification that you can
browse and, you know, make requests through and all that, which
turns out to be really handy, because when we finish a
feature, we can just send a link to that documentation of the front
and team and say, Hey, here's the endpoint. It's got everything you need in there.
Yep.
>> Um, yeah. Previous.
>> Uh, I just wanted to talk about how we
organize. This is another thing that,
uh, Twitter and Facebook don't really want you to do. Because
what they want to do is to deliver you and add,
um, and so their timeline belongs to
them, Not your timeline belongs to them, not you.
Uh, and, uh, so with
us, our incentives,
uh, were
incentivized to to want to want
people to own their timeline.
Mhm. And so what we've done is given
ways to organize your timeline,
um, so that you can
divide up the timeline
based on who you're talking to and
what you're talking about. So, for
example, if you've got relatives that you
want to engage with, um in terms
of, you know, food recipes or sport
events and things like that that are, you know,
family safe, um, but not want to talk about
politics so much. Um
uh, the other. You know, other social
networks are pretty binary. Either you're engaging
these people, or you aren't. Um
and, uh, with us, we give much a
much finer control. Maybe I want to talk tonight.
Uh, what about her cookie
recipes? But not so much about her
opinion on national politics. And we we have
mechanisms, uh, to help you do That
>> sounds really powerful. Like a hopefully better
version of Google's circles, which were a
person based rather than kind of topic based
from from the dark days of Google. Plus
>> Yeah, well, I appreciate
you guys coming onto the podcast. I I I want
to let our audience know, um, and let you
guys kind of give them an update of kind of
what's next And maybe some of your platforms that
you're, uh, not secure platforms, but where to find your
platform and how to access it And how to, you know, be a
part of
>> it. Yeah, wisely dot com.
Yeah,
>> yeah, yeah. You can come to chat wisely dot com.
And, uh, So what we're doing right now,
uh, is trying to
demonstrate, um, to,
uh, to potential investors that
are our assertion is valid that people are
willing to pay. Um, but because we're beta,
uh, we don't have our payment mechanisms set up
yet. Uh, so uh, in lieu of that, we've set up a
patreon. Um, uh,
which, uh, has has astounded and
and and and giving me lots of warm fuzzies
based on how successful we haven't had it up very,
very long. Um, and, uh, the
success that we've received with that, um
uh, you know, making me feel really good.
Uh, we're up to a little over 100 a month
on it. Um, uh,
um, the higher we can get that number,
the more powerful our assertion will
be that people are willing,
um uh, to pay for a
social network,
>> for sure. So we'll leave a link both to
chat wisely dot com and to the patreon and the show notes for this
episode. Great. So thanks for that.
Thank you. Yeah. And, uh, there
anything we didn't cover that y'all wanted to mention about?
Chat wisely.
>> Uh, well, uh, we need beta testers. Um,
uh, we we've had some, uh Come
on, the blog
was very helpful for that, Um,
and, uh,
uh, we had we had some
people point out tests and
problems, um, and generated
some, you know, lots of tickets for us, which is what we
need.
>> Um
>> uh and so, Yeah,
we need beta testers. We
please try to break it. Try to break the site. If things
are confusing, let us know. Um, we're not
user interface or user experience, people. Um
and so we need a conversation with beta
testers about their
reaction to how we have things designed which
will help us iterate, um, and and
get something and get and get a better user
experience.
>> Awesome. Yeah. I mean, thank you,
Brian and Michael. It's been a lot of fun.
Kind of hearing about chat wisely. I'm gonna throw it
over to our friend Taylor.
>> Yeah. Thank you so much for listening to the high
school weekly podcast. And again. Thank you, Michael. Thank you, Brian, for being
guests today. It's been great to talk with you. I've
Oh, yeah, absolutely. I've been your host, Taylor
Fausak. And with me today was Cameron Gara. If you want
to find out more about high School weekly, you can go to
our website, which is Haskell weekly dot news.
If you enjoyed listening to this podcast, please
rate and review us wherever you found us. If you have any
feedback for us, please set us up on Twitter at High
School weekly. And, uh, yeah, anything else
came.
>> Yeah, High school weekly is brought to you by I.T.
pro T.V. and a CI learning company and our
employer. They would like to offer you 30% off
the lifetime of your subscription. So if you
have any interest in I.T. world, we have the
content for you. Um and you can use
promo code Haskell Weekly 30 at
checkout for that discount. So I think that
about does it for us. Thank you for joining us on the Haskell Weekly
podcast. And we'll see you guys next week, right?
Police?